Docs: Cutting data warehouse costs (#12581)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/data-warehouse/cutting-costs.mdx

Beyond just looking at [the source synced](https://app.posthog.com/pipeline/sources), you can use PostHog's `query_log` table. This contains details on all queries run in your project. You can use this to see what tables are (or are not) being queried and how often.

For example, you can use the following query to identify potential unused or underused tables:

```sql
WITH cleaned AS (
    SELECT 
      query,
      replaceRegexpAll(replaceRegexpAll(replaceRegexpAll(lowerUTF8(query), '--[^\\n]*', ' '), '/\\*[^*]*\\*+(?:[^/*][^*]*\\*+)*/', ' '), '\\s+', ' ') AS q
    FROM query_log
),
tail AS (
  SELECT 
    query,
    arrayElement(splitByString(' from ', q),
    length(splitByString(' from ', q))) AS after_from
  FROM cleaned
),
tokens AS (
  SELECT 
    query,
    trim(BOTH ' ' FROM replaceAll(replaceAll(arrayElement(splitByChar(',', arrayElement(splitByChar('(', arrayElement(splitByChar(' ', after_from), 1)), 1)), 1), '`',''), '"','')) AS tok
  FROM tail
)
SELECT 
  IF(position(tok,'.') > 0, arrayElement(splitByChar('.', tok), length(splitByChar('.', tok))), tok) AS table_after_from,
  count() AS hits
FROM tokens
WHERE tok != ''
GROUP BY table_after_from
ORDER BY hits ASC
```

> This query gets the most queried tables after the `FROM` keyword in the query (and it's a bit complex, we know). This means it also includes views and other queries that reference tables, but it might be able to help you identify unused or underused tables and disable syncs for them.

Reviewer: This tripped me up a bit. Lmk if I have if my interpretation is right lol 

```suggestion
This query fetches your most queried tables by parsing the `FROM` clause from every query. It effectively lists how often each table is referenced. It's a bit complex, we know. This means it also includes views and other queries that reference tables, so it's not a perfect one-to-one-map, but it might be able to help you identify unused or underused tables and disable syncs for them.
```
